over the past couple of years google has
started to rely a lot more on its smart
campaigns and responsive search ads
they're selling it as the golden ticket
for business owners in that you're just
allowing google and its ai and its bots
to show your customers the best
headlines and descriptions for you to
get clicks but more importantly for you
to get conversions but the problem is is
that google's ai is actually not very
good my name is aaron young and i'm your
15 000 hour google ads master when i say
that google's ai is not very good to
explain that a little bit further what i
actually mean is in order for google to
finish its learning phase so that it's
ai can actually know which headlines and
descriptions to show it actually needs 5
000 impressions in a 30-day period the
problem for most small and medium
businesses is that individual ad groups
get nowhere near 5 000 impressions in a
30-day period this means that your ads
stay in an endless learning loop and
more importantly google's ai never gets
enough data for you to actually end that
loop so that google knows which
headlines and which descriptions to show
thankfully i've got a solution after
conducting hundreds of tests over
multiple accounts i've got a solution
that you can implement into your
campaign today in the next three minutes
i'm going to show you the problem but
more importantly how to solve it let's
go firstly i want to show you the
problem so you can see in here we have
two ads we have a responsive search ad
and also an expanded text ad and this is
the date range that we're looking at
what i want you to look at really
importantly here is that google keeps
showing this responsive search ad
because it has a higher click through
ratio but the problem is is that when we
get to this cost per conversion which
ultimately when you're running a google
ads campaign the more important metric
is your conversion rate and how many
people are actually completing
conversion action and you can see the
big difference in here the responsive
search ad has a cost per conversion of
181 dollars versus the expanded text ad
which has a cost per conversion of under
50 and for this business their goal is
anything under 75
so we're achieving that goal really
really well with this expanded text ad
as you may be aware come june 30 2022
you're not going to actually have the
option to either add or edit expanded
text ads so you've only got responsive
search ads moving forward and how we can
actually resolve this issue with the
responsive search ads because as i said
come the first of july 2022 you're not
going to be able to edit or upload any
more expanded text ads what i have done
is i made some changes into our
responsive search ad and i'll just show
you the extended date range and we'll
move that up until yesterday and you can
see here that we've actually improved
the exp the responsive search ad
the cost per conversion from 181 all the
way down to 40
now this wasn't done with google's
responsive learning the reason for why
we know this wasn't done purely on
google's responsive search learning is
because this responsive search ad is
still actually in its learning phase and
the reason for that as i described
earlier in this video is that you need
around 5000 impressions in 30 days in
order for google to be able to display a
rating in the performance column so
we're still not getting that performance
column because google just doesn't have
enough data to be able to rate which is
the best performing headline and which
is the best performing description and
what we did is we made a really simple
change and we started actually pinning
in some of our headlines and also some
of our descriptions
the reason that we were able to make
these decisions is that from our
previous data in the expanded text ads
we knew that the core best performing
call to action was this messaging around
39 per month and also this headline
which is also around a month to month
contract so what you need to do to fix
this problem with the sponsor search ads
is just quickly go into your responsive
search ad click on edit and once you've
clicked on edit that will then allow you
to go through and see the exact
headlines that you want and then just a
matter of quickly easily going in and
pressing pin now you can make that
decision as whether you want to show it
in position one position two or position
three but for us we know that this call
to action of from just 39 per month
works really powerful in that third
position and then we also did the same
thing for the descriptions we went
through and we knew that this
description of pointing out that we've
got month-to-month contracts from just
was also the best performer so we pinned
that in and once again you just press
this little pin button and then you say
whether you want it to be in position
one or position two so those very small
really quick changes allowed us to give
greater control to google ads so that we
can actually make sure that our
headlines are always showing those call
to actions which we know convert and as
i said before since we've made those
changes we've been able to see the cost
per conversion for this responsive
search ad reduced from 181 dollars all
the way down to 39
so that is a really simple way that you
can make a change in your responsive
search ads so that way you get the best
of both worlds you're still allowing
google to push its responsive search ads
and use some differences in the
different headlines but what you're also
doing is you're locking in those core
call to actions which you know from your
business provide you the best results
and the highest level of conversions i
know that that quick little tip will
help you improve the performance of your
responsive search ads before you go it
would be greatly appreciated if you
could like and subscribe to my channel
and that way you'll get notified every
time i release these short to the point
google ads teachings which are going to
help your google ads campaigns also as
my way of saying thank you for staying
around to the end of this video i've got
a free gift for you in the description
of this video all you need to do is in
the description is to click on my free
google ads checklist and that will take
you through to a form where you can
actually sign up and you will get my
free google ads optimization checklist
as i said at the start of this video
i've been optimizing google ads
campaigns for over 15 000 hours and this
is a checklist that i've put together to
help you know what you need to optimize
in your google ads account every day
every week every month and every 90 days
it's my free gift to you and i look
forward to seeing you on our very next
google ads teaching see you then